+++
abstract = "3D reconstruction from 2D images is a central problem in computer vision. Recent works have been focusing on reconstruction directly from a single image. It is well known however that only one image cannot provide enough information for such a reconstruction. A prior knowledge that has been entertained are 3D CAD models due to its online ubiquity. A fundamental question is how to compactly represent millions of CAD models while allowing generalization to new unseen objects with fine-scaled geometry. We introduce an approach to compactly represent a 3D mesh. Our method first selects a 3D model from a graph structure by using a novel free-form deformation FFD 3D-2D registration, and then the selected 3D model is refined to best fit the image silhouette. We perform a comprehensive quantitative and qualitative analysis that demonstrates impressive dense and realistic 3D reconstruction from single images."
abstract_short = "3D reconstruction from 2D images is a central problem in computer vision. Recent works have been focusing on reconstruction directly from a single image. It is well known however that only one image cannot provide enough information for such a reconstruction. A prior knowledge that has been entertained are 3D CAD models due to its online ubiquity. A fundamental question is how to compactly represent millions of CAD models while allowing generalization to new unseen objects with fine-scaled geometry. We introduce an approach to compactly represent a 3D mesh. Our method first selects a 3D model from a graph structure by using a novel free-form deformation FFD 3D-2D registration, and then the selected 3D model is refined to best fit the image silhouette. We perform a comprehensive quantitative and qualitative analysis that demonstrates impressive dense and realistic 3D reconstruction from single images."
authors = ["Jhony K. Pontes", "Chen Kong", "Anders Eriksson", "Clinton Fookes", "Sridha Sridharan", "Simon Lucey"]
date = "2017-07-23"
image_preview = ""
math = true
publication_types = ["1"]
publication = "In *arXiv cs.CV*"
publication_short = "*arXiv cs.CV*"
selected = true
title = "Compact Model Representation for 3D Reconstruction"
#url_code = "#"
#url_dataset = "#"
url_pdf = "papers/ArXiV_3DV2017.pdf"
url_arxiv = "papers/ArXiV_3DV2017.pdf"
#url_project = "project/deep-learning/"
#url_slides = "#"
#url_video = "#"
url_bibtex = "papers/ArXiV_3DV2017.html"
url_sup = "papers/Supplementary_Material_3DV_2017.pptx"

#[[url_custom]]
#name = "Custom Link"
#url = "https://www.example.org"

# Optional featured image (relative to `static/img/` folder).
[header]
image = "headers/overview.png"
#caption = "My caption :smile:"

+++
